# SYSC4001 Assignment 3 Instructions

## Background
This assignment is used to emulate a scheduling system. This is done by using linux threads as "cores" and assigning "processes" to be run on these cores in the form of a data structure. The process of "running" the process is done by waiting a specific amount of time based on the process' scheduling policy, and designated time slice. FIFO processes are run to completion, Round Robin (RR) processes are run for a specific time slice, and Normal processes are run for their time slice, then their priority and time slice are dynamically adjusted. Processes themselves are randomly generated in a producer thread, and are given properties as outlined in the assignment.

## Running the assignment

To run the assignment, start with opening a new terminal, and running ./compile to compile all files and open the appropriate terminals, then running ./prio. It is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to use a pipe to put the output of the program into a text file e.g. ./prio > results.txt. This will make viewing the output easier, as there can be expected to be around 10k lines of text by the time the program is done, for only 20 processes.


## What to expect
After running the program, the producer thread will create 20 processes by default, or NUM_PROCESSES * NUM_CORES total processes if these values are changed. The producer puts these processes into a global 2-d array of buffers, with the first index being the designated core, and the second being a process for that core. These buffers are then accessed by the appropriate "CPU" by passing in a core index upon thread creation. The core will start by sorting it's processes into 3 priority queues RQ0 - RQ2, based on priority and scheduling type for the process. it will then run RQ0.  FIFO proccesses  will immediately be run to completion, once selected. RR processes will be run for their time slice, then put back into the queue. After RQ0 is ran, the core will move on to RQ1 where processes will have their priority and time slice adjusted after every time they are run, which will result in either the process being run to completion, or the process being moved to RQ2. After RQ1 is empty, RQ2 is run. It should be noted that in RQ2, it is possible for processes to move back to RQ1, in which case RQ1 is run again immediately after the process is moved, to ensure that the highest priority process is always run. After the RQ1 process is ran, scheduling resumes into RQ2 until all processes are finished.
IT IS EXPECTED FOR THE PROGRAM TO RUN ANYWHERE FROM 30s TO 1m, PLEASE BE PATIENT AND DO NOT ABORT PROGRAM. WILL TAKE LONGER WITH MORE PROCESSES